aes_sedai
Adeleas Namelle: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. Her sister is Vandene. Adeleas was murdered by Careane in The Path of Daggers.
Adelorna Bastine: An Aes Sedai of and Captain-General for the Green Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Saldaea. She has three Warders.
Adine Canford: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah, and therefore aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Andor.
Adrielle: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was part of the force sent to the Black Tower by Elaida, where she was bonded by an Asha'man named Kurin.
Aeldene Stonebridge: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah, and therefore aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is the head of the Blue Ajah's eyes-and-ears.
Aeldra Najaf: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah from the novel New Spring It is uncertain whether or not she is still alive. She was Tamra Ospenya's Keeper of the Chronicles after Gitara Moroso died.
Afara: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is sent as an emissary to Tarabon. The other two emissaries sent with her, Edesina and Guisin, were captured by the Seanchan, so it is possible that Afara was, as well.
Aiden Shimura: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is Atha'an Miere.
Aisha Raveneos: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah. She was killed by the Black Ajah because she was set by Tamra Ospenya to search for the Dragon Reborn.
Aisling Noon: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was the Aes Sedai advisor of King Easar of Shienar, but she left him when she heard of the split in the White Tower. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to the Black Tower, where she was forcibly bonded by Malevin. She was originally one of the Tuatha'an.
Akarrin Comeris: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent to Shadar Logoth after Rand and Nynaeve cleanse saidin to try to find out what happened there.
Akoure Vayet: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was part of the force sent to the Black Tower by Elaida, where she was bonded by an unnamed Asha'man.
Alanna Mosvani: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Arafel. She currently has two Warders: Ihvon and Rand, the latter of whom she bonded against his will. She has sworn fealty to Rand and has vanished from the Stone of Tear.
Aledrin Malenry: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the White Ajah; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Tarabon. She was one of the Aes Sedai to go to the Black Tower to look for Asha'man to bond
Aleis Romlin: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Green Ajah.
Aliane Senican: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the White Ajah.
Alind Dyfelle: A historical, famous Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah.
Alvera Ramosanya: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Yellow Ajah.
Alviarin Freidhen: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai and was Elaida's first Keeper of the Chronicles until Elaida replaced her. She is also the Head of the Black Ajah. she fled the Tower to avoid exposure as one of the Black Ajah and survived the last Battle, trapped in a stedding.
Amico Nagoyin: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She flees with Liandrin and eleven other members of the Black Ajah. She is killed by Isam after she is captured in the Stone of Tear.
Amira Moselle: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was the Mistress of Novices for the Amyrlin Sierin Vayu and later, after Sierin's death, became a Sitter for the Red Ajah, a position that she later stepped down from. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand, and is killed at Dumai's Wells.
Amylia: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; it is unknown whether she aligned herself with the rebel Aes Sedai or Elaida's Aes Sedai. She has been claimed as a teacher by the Atha'an Miere.
Anaiya Carel: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah, and therefore aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is bonded to Setagana. She was a part of the original council of Aes Sedai in Salidar and has sworn an oath of fealty to Egwene. She was murdered by Halima/Aran'gar in Crossroads of Twilight
Ananda: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah. She was killed during the battle that split the Tower.
Andaya Forae: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Gray Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai and keeps her seat after reunification, taking Evanallein's place. She is originally from Tarabon.
Anghara: A historical figure; she was an ancient Amyrlin Seat of whom Mat has memories.
Anlee: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Blue Ajah in New Spring She is likely deceased or retired, as she is no longer mentioned as a Sitter.
Annharid Matoun: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She was sent back to the White Tower to spread rumors about Logain and the Red Ajah. She is now under an oath to obey Doesine, Pevara, Saerin, Seaine and Yukiri.
Annoura Larisen: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with neither the rebels nor Elaida. She was originally from Tarabon. She is the Aes Sedai advisor of Berelain sur Paendrag, the First of Mayene. She accompanied Perrin and company to Ghealdan.
Arebis: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Ared Mosinel: A male Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends. He later became the Forsaken known as Rahvin.
Ashmanaille: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai.
Asne Zeramene: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She has four Warders, one of them named Powl. She is originally from Saldaea. She flees the White Tower with Liandrin and eleven other members of the Black Ajah. She was killed in the attempt to kidnap Elayne in Knife of Dreams
Astrelle: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Atuan Larisett: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She was found out by Doesine, Pevara Saerin, Seaine and Yukiri, and swore an oath to obey them.
Ayako Norsoni: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was part of the force sent to the Black Tower by Elaida, where she was bonded by an Asha'man named Donalo Sandomere. The two were both turned to the Shadow by Taim.
Azille Narof: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during and/or shortly after the Breaking of the World. She played a part in the decision to build Tar Valon and the White Tower.
Balladare Arandaille: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Brown Ajah.
Ballair: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during the War of the Hundred Years. She was the Aes Sedai advisor of Ishara, Queen of Andor.
Barashelle: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during the Trolloc Wars.
Barasine: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai involved in capturing Egwene.
Barid Bel Medar: A male Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends. He later became the Forsaken known as Demandred.
Beidomon: A male Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends. Along with Mierin Eronaile/Lanfear, he discovered the Dark One's prison.
Beldeine Nyram: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Saldaea. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand, and is instead captured herself at Dumai's Wells. She later swears fealty to Rand. She bonds an Asha'man, Karldin Manfor, as her first Warder. She was killed during the Last Battle.
Beldemaine: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Arafel.
Bennae Nalsad: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Shienar.
Beonin Marinye: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai, but is really a spy for Elaida. She is a member of the original council in Salidar and has sworn an oath of fealty to Egwene. After Egwene is captured by the Tower, she returns to the White Tower. She is bonded to Tervail Dura and originally from Tarabon.
Bera Harkin: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She has three Warders and is originally from Andor. She and Kiruna are sent to find Rand in the Aiel Waste; they later meet up with the Salidar embassy to Rand, and are captured at Dumai's Wells. She, like the others, swears fealty to Rand.
Berana Shemon: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the White Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai.
Berenicia Morsad: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Shienar. She is sent as one of the rebel emissaries to Rand, but instead ends up escorting the Two Rivers girls found by Alanna and Verin to the rebels.
Berisha Terakuni: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Arafel. She is one of the Aes Sedai involved in capturing Egwene. She was murdered during the Last Battle.
Bernaile Gelbarn: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Tarabon. She was sent back to the White Tower to spread rumors about Logain and the Red Ajah. She is now under an oath to obey Doesine, Pevara, Saerin, Seaine and Yukiri.
Beryl Marle: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the White Ajah.
Berylla Naron: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She flees the White Tower with Liandrin and eleven other members of the Black Ajah. The last we hear of her, she is in the employ of Moghedien.
Bharatine: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai.
Biranca Hasad: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during and/or shortly after the Breaking of the World. She played a part in the decision to build Tar Valon and the White Tower.
Birlen Pena: An Aes Sedai of the Black Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She fled the Tower before it was reunited.
Bonwhin Meraighdin: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Red Ajah. She tried to manipulate Artur Hawkwing and was later deposed.
Brendas: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai and is one of the women Egwene chooses to be in Tel'aran'rhiod when she decides to capture Moghedien.
Cabriana Mecandes: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah. She was originally from Tear. She was killed by Semirhage.
Cadsuane Melaidhrin: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she has aligned herself with neither the rebels nor Elaida. She is currently the oldest living Aes Sedai and is revered and/or feared by almost every other Aes Sedai. She has attached herself to Rand al'Thor and has become his advisor. After the Last Battle, she was raised Amyrlin. She is originally from Far Madding.
Caraighan Maconar: A historical Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah. She is a legend for all of the incredible things she did during her life.
Careane Fransi: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She has three Warders, Cieryl Arjuna, Venr Kosan and Tavan. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent as an emissary to Altara. She is the murderer of Ispan and Adeleas, and is later killed by Vandene in revenge.
Carenna: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai.
Cariandre Temalien: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Ghealdan.
Carlinya Sorevin: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai, where she was a member of the original council and swore fealty to Egwene. She was killed in Tel'aran'rhiod.
Carniele Emares: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was part of the force sent to the Black Tower by Elaida, where she was bonded by an unnamed Asha'man.
Catala Lucanvalle: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Yellow Ajah.
Catlynde Artein: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during and/or shortly after the Breaking of the World. She played a part in the decision to build Tar Valon and the White Tower.
Cavandra: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was Queen Tylin of Altara's advisor, but left for the White Tower when she heard of the split.
Celestin: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She was sent back to the White Tower to spread rumors about Logain and the Red Ajah. She was discovered and placed an oath to obey Doesine, Pevara, Saerin, Seaine and Yukiri, but released after Egwene persuaded them it was wrong to force her in that manner.
Cemaile Sorenthaine: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Gray Ajah.
Cerilla Marodred: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Gray Ajah.
Cetalia Delarme: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah in New Spring She was the head of the Blue Ajah's eyes-and-ears. She was originally from Tarabon. Cetalia is now likely either deceased or retired, as Siuan eventually took over as head of the eyes-and-ears.
Chai Rugan: An Aes Sedai of the Black Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She fled the Tower before it was reunited.
Chesmal Emry: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She is originally from Ghealdan. She flees the White Tower with Liandrin and eleven other members of the Black Ajah. She was captured by Elayne and killed in an escape attempt.
Chisaine Nurbaya: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor; she was instead captured herself and eventually swore fealty to him.
Chowin Tsao: A historical Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah. She was an advisor to Artur Hawkwing.
Coiren Saeldain: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor; the last we see of her, she is da'tsang among the Aiel, but it can be assumed that she has sworn fealty to Rand.
Coladara: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah; she has aligned herself with neither the rebel Aes Sedai nor Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is the Aes Sedai advisor of the King of Arafel, Paitar Nachiman. She accompanies him and the other Borderlands rulers out of the Borderlands.
Comarra Zepava: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Blue Ajah.
Corele Hovian: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she has aligned herself with neither the rebel Aes Sedai nor Elaida's Aes Sedai, but is instead a follower of Cadsuane. She is originally from Murandy. She has bonded an Asha'man, Damer Flinn, as her Warder.
Corianin Nedeal: A historical Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah. She was the last known Dreamer in the Tower until Egwene.
Covarla Baldene: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor. After the battle at Dumai's Wells, she manages to escape and makes her way to Dorlan, a village outside of Tar Valon.
Dagdara Finchey: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. It is unknown whether or not she escapes execution when the Black Ajah is revealed.
Daigian Moseneillin: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah, originally from Cairhien; she is aligned with neither the rebel Aes Sedai nor Elaida's Aes Sedai, but is instead a follower of Cadsuane. She is very weak in the One Power, and is one of the weakest Aes Sedai. She bonded an Asha'man, Eben Hopwil, as her Warder. She was killed when Shaidar Haran freed Semirhage.
Dalaine Ndaye: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Gray Ajah.
Dalevien: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Danelle: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. At some time she was replaced by Mesaana and found with her mind broken after Egwene defeated her in Tel'aran'rhiod.
Deain: A historical Aes Sedai. In Seanchan, she created the a'dam and gave to Luthair Paendrag one of her sisters, collared. She was later collared herself.
Deane Aryman: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Blue Ajah. She is remembered as one of the strongest Amyrlins ever.
Deindre: A historical Aes Sedai who lived around the Breaking of the World. She had the Talent of Foretelling, and Foretold the making of the Eye of the World.
Delana Mosalaine: A Shienaran Aes Sedai of the Black and Gray Ajahs; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai, where she was a Sitter, but fled to avoid exposure as a Black and was later killed in Natrin's Barrow.
Demira Eriff: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Arad Doman and is bonded to a man named Stevan. She was a part of the rebel embassy to Rand, but ended up escorting the Two Rivers girls found by Alanna and Verin to the rebel Aes Sedai.
Desala Nevanche: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Cairhien. She is involved in the capture of Egwene. She is one of the Red Aes Sedai to bond an Asha'man Warder at the end of Knife of Dreams
Desandre Alraed: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was part of the force sent to the Black Tower by Elaida, where she was bonded by an unnamed Asha'man.
Doesine Alwain: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Yellow Ajah; she ws aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was a part of the hunt for the Black Ajah, along with Pevara, Saerin, Seaine and Yukiri and after reunification was one of Egwene's strongest supporters. She was killed in the Last Battle
Doniella Alievin: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Brown Ajah.
Doraise Mesianos: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Duhara Basaheen: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She was the Keeper of the Chronicles for the Amyrlin Sierin Vayu, despite their difference in Ajah affiliation. She has been sent by Elaida to be Elayne's Aes Sedai advisor. She is killed in the Last Battle. She is originally from Arad Doman.
Dumera Alman: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during and/or shortly after the Breaking of the World. She played a part in the decision to build Tar Valon and the White Tower.
Duram Laddel Cham: A male Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends. He later became the Forsaken known as Be'lal.
Eadyth: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Blue Ajah; she was also the First Selector of the Blue Ajah when Moiraine and Siuan were raised to the shawl. She is likely dead or retired by now, as she was white haired in New Spring and we never hear about her again after this book.
Edarna Noregovna: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Blue Ajah.
Edesina Azzedin: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is sent as an emissary to Tarabon, but is captured by the Seanchan. She is later rescued by Mat Cauthon and eventually returns to the White Tower.
Egwene al'Vere: The Amyrlin Seat. She is from Emond's Field in the Two Rivers, Andor. She spent time as a damane and then studying with the Aiel Wise Ones and Dreamwalkers and is the first Dreamer known since Corianin Nedeal. She was initially chosen as the Rebel Amyrlin, but after spending time as a prisoner in the White Tower, was chosen as Elaida's replacement. She is killed in the Last Battle by drawing too much of the Power after defeating Mazrim Taim and healing the damage balefire and the True Power did to the Pattern.
Elaida do Avriny a'Roihan: A former Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Red Ajah, she was raised Amyrlin after she orchestrated Siuan Sanche's deposing, splitting the Tower and driving deep division sbetween the Ajahs during her time as Amyrlin. She was captured by the Seanchan and made damane. She has the talent of Foretelling. She is originally from Murandy.
Elan Morin Tedronai: A male Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends. He later became the Forsaken known as Ishamael.
Elayne Trakand: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is also the Daughter-Heir, and as of Knife of Dreams the uncrowned Queen of Andor. She is bonded to Birgitte Trahelion and Rand al'Thor. She is first-sister to Aviendha.
Eldaya Tolen: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Blue Ajah.
Eldrene ay Ellan ay Carlan: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during the Trolloc Wars. She was the last Queen of Manetheren and was married to King Aemon al Caar al Thorin, who was also rumored to be her Warder. She died by drawing too much of the One Power in an attempt to save Manetheren from the forces of the Dark One.
Eldrith Jhondar: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She flees with Liandrin and eleven other members of the Black Ajah. She was captured by Elayne in Caemlyn and is killed in an escape attempt. Her Warder is Kennit.
Eleyan al'Landerin: A historical Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah. There is a statue of her in Tar Valon.
Elin Warrel: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she ws aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Andor.
Elisane Tishar: A historical Aes Sedai. She lived during and/or shortly after the Breaking of the World and became the first Amyrlin Seat.
Elise Strang: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Gray Ajah.
Elza Penfell: An Andoran Aes Sedai of the Black and Green Ajahs; She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor but is instead captured herself at Dumai's Wells and swears fealty to Rand. She is balefired by him while trying to help Semirhage escape.
Erian Boroleos: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor but is instead captured herself at Dumai's Wells and swears fealty to Rand. She has two living Warders, Bartol and Rashan, and two dead Warders, killed by Rand during his capture by the Aes Sedai. She is originally from Illian.
Escaralde Hamdey: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Brown Ajah with the rebels; she give up her seat after reunification. She is originally from Far Madding.
Eval Ramman: A male Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends. He later became the Forsaken known as Balthamel.
Evanellein Lorn: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Gray Ajah,she was also a member of the Black. She flees the Tower to avoid exposure after reunification and is killed in Tel'aran'rhiod.
Faeldrin Harella: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is a member of the rebel embassy to Rand and is captured at Dumai's Wells, where she swears fealty to Rand. She has three Warders and is originally from Tarabon.
Faiselle Darone: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Green Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai.
Falion Bhoda: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She flees the Tower with Liandrin and eleven other members of the Black Ajah. She has now been captured by Elayne, but escaped and was killed in the Last Battle.
Faolain Orande: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. Because she has not yet taken the oaths and was instead raised to the shawl by Egwene al'Vere, many of the Aes Sedai do not consider her a full sister. She is one of the rebels sent to the Black Tower to look for men to bond
Farellien: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Farnah: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah raised Sitter after reunification.
Felaana Bevaine: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is involved in capturing Egwene.
Fera Sormen: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor but is instead captured herself at Dumai's Wells and swears fealty to Rand.
Feragaine Saralman: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Blue Ajah.
Ferane Neheran: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Hall of the Tower, and also the head of the White Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Arad Doman.
Gabrelle: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was part of the force sent to the Black Tower by Elaida, where she was bonded by Logain Ablar. They have since become lovers.
Galina Casban: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She is the head of the Red Ajah, and just below the head of the Black Ajah in power. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor. During the battle at Dumai's Wells, she is captured by the Shaido Aiel. She is currently on her way back to the Aiel Waste with the Shaido who wish to start over, as gai'shain to Therava.
Gelarna: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Gerra Kishar: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Gray Ajah.
Gitara Moroso: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah. She was the first Keeper of the Chronicles for Tamra Ospenya. She had the Talent of Foretelling, and died giving a Foretelling about the birth of the Dragon Reborn.
Guisin: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She was sent as an emissary to Tarabon, but was captured by the Seanchan. She has since become an obedient damane.
Haindar: A historical, male Aes Sedai who went mad after the Bore was sealed.
Hattori Gatano: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is bonded to Sleete. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor; she escapes Dumai's Wells and returns to Dorlan.
Igaine Luin: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Brown Ajah.
Illeisien: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah; she has aligned herself with neither the rebel Aes Sedai nor Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is currently with the Borderland rulers.
Innina Darenhold: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor, but is instead captured herself at Dumai's Wells. She swears fealty to Rand.
Irgain Fatamed: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor, but is instead captured herself at Dumai's Wells. She is also stilled by Rand in the battle, but is later Healed by Damer Flinn and swears fealty to Rand.
Isebaille Tobanyi: A historical Aes Sedai who delivered her brothers and the throne of Arad Doman to their enemies because the White Tower told her to do so.
Ishar Morrad Chuain: A male Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends. He later became the Forsaken known as Aginor.
Ishara Nawan: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Blue Ajah.
Ispan Shefar: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah, and also a member of the Black Ajah. She is originally from Tarabon. She flees the Tower with Liandrin and eleven other members of the Black Ajah. She is captured by Elayne and Nynaeve in Ebou Dar, and later murdered by Careane Fransi.
Jala Bandevin: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is involved in capturing Egwene.
Jamilila Norish: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. As she disappears from the Tower after Egwene is raised to the Amyrlin Seat, she is potentially Mesaana, although Egwene does not think that this is likely.
Janine Pavlara: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor, but is instead captured herself at Dumai's Wells. She has sworn fealty to Rand.
Janya Frende: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Brown Ajah; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai, the only original Sitter to flee of her own volition. She retains her seat after reunification.
Jaric Mondoran: A historical, male Aes Sedai who went made after the Bore was sealed.
Jarna Malari: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Gray Ajah. She was also a member of the Black Ajah, and was head of the Black Ajah before her death. She was killed by Ishamael.
Javindhra Doraille: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Red Aes Sedai sent to the Black Tower to bond an Asha'man Warder at the end of Knife of Dreams and was Turned to the Shadow by Taim
Jeaine Caide: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah, and also a member of the Black Ajah. She is originally from Arad Doman. She flees the Tower with Liandrin and eleven other members of the Black Ajah. She is killed by Thom during the Last Battle trying to sneak into the Pit of Doom
Jenare Balmaen: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was part of the force sent to the Black Tower by Elaida, where she was bonded by an Asha'man named Welyn Kajima.
Jennet Cobb: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She was sent back to the White Tower to spread rumors about Logain and the Red Ajah, but discovered and forced to swear an oath to obey Doesine, Pevara, Saerin, Seaine and Yukiri. She was released after Egwene persuaded them of the error of their ways.
Jesse Bilal: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is the head of the Brown Ajah.
Jestian Redhill: A historical Aes Sedai who did something terrible because the White Tower told her to do so.
Jezrail: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Tear. She is one of the Red Aes Sedai sent to the Black Tower to bond an Asha'man Warder at the end of Knife of Dreams
Joar Addam Nessosin: A male Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends. He later became the Forsaken known as Asmodean.
Joiya Byir: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah, and also a member of the Black Ajah. She fled the Tower with Liandrin and eleven other members of the Black Ajah. She was killed by Isam after being captured in the Stone of Tear.
Joline Maza: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was a Sitter until Elaida unchaired her and sent her to Ebou Dar as an emissary to Tylin Quintara, Queen of Altara. She is still in the city when the Seanchan take it, but avoids capture and is aided in escaping the city by Mat Cauthon, who she accompanies to Caemlyn, before returning to Tar Valon. She has two Warders, Blaeric Negina and Fen Mizar.
Jorlen Corbesan: A male Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends. He was killed when the Bore was unsealed.
Josaine: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was killed in the Seanchan attack on the Tower.
Juilaine Madome: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Kairen Stang: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah, and therefore aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She was originally from Andor and her Warder was Llyw. She was a part of the rebel embassy to Rand, but ended up escorting the Two Rivers girls found by Alanna and Verin to the rebel Aes Sedai. She was murdered by Aran'gar/Halima.
Kamarile Maradim Nindar: An Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends. She later the Forsaken known as Graendal.
Karale Sanghir: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah, and is now under an oath to obey Doesine, Pevara, Saerin, Seaine and Yukiri. She is originally from Arad Doman.
Karella Fanway: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during and/or shortly after the Breaking of the World. She played a part in the decision to build Tar Valon and the White Tower.
Kateri Nepvue: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah, murdered by Bloodknives
Katerine Alruddin: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand, but she manages to escape capture herself and makes her way back to Tar Valon, where she briefly becomes Mistress of Novices before fleeing to avoid exposure. She is killed in Tel'aran'rhiod'.
Kera Haellin: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Tear.
Kerene Nagashi: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah. Her Warders were Karile and Stepin. She was killed by the Black Ajah because she was set by Tamra Ospenya to search for the Dragon Reborn.
Kiam Lopiang: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during and/or shortly after the Breaking of the World.
Kirin Melway: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Brown Ajah.
Kiruna Nachiman: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Arafel and has four Warders. She and Bera are sent to find Rand in the Aiel Waste; they later meet up with the Salidar embassy to Rand, and are captured at Dumai's Wells. She, like the others, has sworn fealty to Rand.
Kiyosa Natomo: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Green Ajah.
Kiyoshi: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Kodam: A historical, male Aes Sedai who aided in creating the Eye of the World.
Kumira Dhoran: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she aligned herself with neither the rebel Aes Sedai nor Elaida's Aes Sedai, but was instead a follower of Cadsuane. She was killed at Shadar Logoth while Rand and Nynaeve cleansed saidin.
Kwamesa Taramasu: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai and stes down after reunification. She is originally from Arafel.
Laigin Arnault: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand, and was killed in the attempt to bring him to the White Tower.
Lannis: A historical scholar of the Blue Ajah
Lairain: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Larelle Tarsi: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah in New Spring. It is unknown whether or not she is still alive in the later books.
Larissa Lyndel: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. It is unknown whether or not she escapes execution after the Black Ajah is revealed.
Latra Posae Decume: A historical Aes Sedai from the Age of Legends who opposed Lews Therin and his plan for sealing the Bore. She died during the Breaking of the World.
Leane Sharif: Formerly an Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah and Keeper of the Chronicles for Siuan Sanche. She was stilled by Elaida, but escaped the Tower with Siuan, Min and Logain. They made their way to Salidar, where she was Healed by Nynaeve. After the Healing, she chose to join the Green Ajah instead of petitioning to rejoin the Blue Ajah. She is captured, along with Egwene, by Aes Sedai loyal to Elaida.
Lelaine Akashi: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Blue Ajah, and therefore aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is bonded to Burin Shaeren.
Lemai Ambani: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was part of the force sent to the Black Tower by Elaida, where she was bonded by an unnamed Asha'man.
Lews Therin Telamon: A historical male Aes Sedai, probably the most famous Aes Sedai ever. He was the Tamyrlin Seat in the Age of Legends, and was known as the Dragon. He led a force of male Aes Sedai in sealing the Dark One's prison, and went mad immediately after the Dark One's counter-stroke tainted saidin. In his insanity, he murdered his entire family and then killed himself, creating Dragonmount in the process. He is now a voice in Rand al'Thor's head.
Liandrin Guirale: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and also a member of the Black Ajah. She is originally from Tarabon. She flees the Tower with eleven other members of the Black Ajah. She is currently one of Suroth's da'covale.
Lideine Rajan: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during and/or shortly after the Breaking of the World. She played a part in the decision to build Tar Valon and the White Tower. She later rebelled against the other Aes Sedai and was stilled.
Lillen Moiral: An Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends. She later became the Forsaken known as Moghedien.
Lirene Doirellin: An Aes Sedai of and former Sitter for the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was exiled about fifteen years ago, along with Toveine Gazal and Tsutama Rath, but was later called back from exile by Elaida after she became the Amyrlin Seat. She is originally from Cairhien.
Ludice Daneen: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah. She was killed by the Black Ajah because she was set by Tamra Ospenya to search for the Dragon Reborn.
Lusonia Cole: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor. She manages to avoid escape at Dumai's Wells and makes her way to Dorlan, a village outside of Tar Valon.
Lyrelle Arienwin: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Blue Ajah, and therefore aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai who went to the Black Tower to bond Asha'man. She is originally from Cairhien.
Mabriam en Shereed: A historical Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah, also the Queen of Aramaelle, who lived sometime during the Compact of the Ten Nations. She was influential in creating the Compact. She was supposedly ta'veren.
Maenadrin: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Magla Daronos: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Yellow Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Illian.
Maigan: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah, and therefore aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. After Anaiya's murder, Maigan is appointed to be on Egwene's advising council.
Mailaine Harvole: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during and/or shortly after the Breaking of the World. She played a part in the decision to build Tar Valon and the White Tower. She later rebelled against the other Aes Sedai.
Malind Nachenin: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Green Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Kandor.
Manda Wan: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah involved in the fight against the Seanchan
Maralenda: An Aes Sedai of unknown Ajah; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is from Andor.
Marasale Jureen: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Yellow Ajah.
Marillin Gemalphin: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah, and also a member of the Black Ajah. She is originally from Caemlyn, Andor. She flees the Tower with Liandrin and eleven other members of the Black Ajah. She was captured by Elayne, but escaped.
Marith Jaen: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Blue Ajah.
Marith Riven: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand, but is instead captured herself at Dumai's Wells and has sworn fealty to him.
Marris Thornhill: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah and was under an oath to obey Doesine, Pevara, Saerin, Seaine and Yukiri. She is originally from Andor.
Marthera: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is captured during the Seanchan raid on the Tower.
Martine Janata: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah. She used to study ter'angreal, but accidentally burned herself out during her studies and left the Tower. She is likely now living under the name of Setalle Anan.
Marya Somares: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah. She played a part in making decisions during the Aiel War. It is unknown whether or not she is still alive.
Mashera Donavelle: A historical Aes Sedai who bore seven children for a man she loathed because the White Tower told her to do so.
Masuri Sokawa: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Arafel and is bonded to Rovair Kirklin. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by the rebels as an emissary to Rand, but is forced to swear an oath of fealty to him. She accompanies Perrin when he goes to Ghealdan.
Mayam Colona: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand. It is not known whether or not she survived Dumai's Wells.
Medanor Eramandos: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Gray Ajah.
Meidani Eschede: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with the Salidar Aes Sedai. She is bonded to Leonin. She was sent back to the White Tower to spread rumors about Logain and the Red Ajah. She was discovered and forced to swear an oath to obey Doesine, Pevara, Saerin, Seaine and Yukiri, but released when Egwene persuaded them of the error of their ways..
Meilyn Arganya: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah. She was bonded to Andro. She was killed by the Black Ajah because she was set by Tamra Ospenya to search for the Dragon Reborn.
Melare: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Andor. She is involved in capturing Egwene. She is one of the Red Aes Sedai to bond an Asha'man Warder at the end of Knife of Dreams
Melavaire Someinellin: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She has a Warder, though his name is not known. She is originally from Cairhien.
Melvara: An Aes Sedai of the Black Ajah.
Memara: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is sent to be an advisor to Queen Tenobia of Saldawea, but Tenobia does not accept her.
Meramor: A member of the Yellow Ajah who was accepting of Nynaeve
Merana Ambrey: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Caemlyn, Andor. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by the rebels as an emissary to Rand al'Thor. After the battle at Dumai's Wells, she is forced to swear fealty to him.
Merean Redhill: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah, and also a member of the Black Ajah. She was the Mistress of Novices for the Amyrlin Tamra Ospenya. She was killed by Moiraine when her affiliation with the Black Ajah was discovered and she murdered members of the Kandori royal family.
Merilille Ceandevin: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Cairhien. She is sent by the rebels as an emissary to Tylin Quintara, Queen of Altara and later becomes a teacher to the Atha'an Miere Windfinders.
Merise Haindehl: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she has aligned herself with neither the rebel Aes Sedai nor Elaida's Aes Sedai, but is instead a follower of Cadsuane. She is bonded to Bassane, Nethan and Jahar Narishma. She is originally from Tarabon.
Merym: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is involved in the capture of Egwene.
Mestra: An Aes Sedai of the Black Ajah who died in Mesaana's attack on the White Tower.
Mierin Eronaile: An Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends. She later became the Forsaken known as Lanfear.
Mitsora Caal: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during and/or shortly after the Breaking of the World. She played a part in the decision to build Tar Valon and the White Tower.
Miyasi: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. It is unknown whether or not she escapes execution after the Black Ajah is revealed.
Moiraine Damodred: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah. She was bonded to Lan Mandragoran. She is originally from Cairhien, where she was a high ranking noblewoman. She was responsible for finding the Dragon Reborn. When she pushed Lanfear through the twisted red doorway ter'angreal she was held by the Aelfinn/Eelfinn until being rescued by Mat, Thom and Noal. She was one of two Aes Sedai Rand took with him to the Pit of Doom.
Moradri: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is from Mayene. She has two Warders.
Moria Karentanis: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Blue Ajah, and therefore aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She is originally from Illian. She is executed when it is discovered that she is Black.
Morvrin Thakanos: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is bonded to Jori. She was a part of the original council of Aes Sedai in Salidar. She has sworn an oath of fealty to Egwene al'Vere.
Musarin: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Myrelle Berengari: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is the Captain-General of the rebel Green Ajah. She is originally from Ebou Dar, Altara, and is bonded to Avar Hachami, Croi Makin, Nuhel Dromand and Llyw. She was a part of the original council of Aes Sedai in Salidar. She has sworn an oath of fealty to Egwene al'Vere. She is one of the rebels sent to the Black Tower to look for men to bond
Myriam Copan: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Green Ajah.
Nacelle Kayama: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She is originally from Malkier. It is unknown whether or not she escapes execution after the Black Ajah is revealed.
Nagora: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Nalaene Forell: An Aes Sedai of the Black Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor; she is instead captured herself and swears an oath of fealty to Rand.
Nalasia Merhan: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She disappears from the Tower after Egwene is raised to the Amyrlin Seat.
Namene Damendar Boann: An Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends. She later became the Forsaken known as Semirhage.
Namine Tasil: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah. She is from Arad Doman. She works as a librarian.
Narenwin Barda: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She manages the Yellow Ajah's eyes-and-ears network.
Naorise Cambral: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Gray Ajah; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She becomes a Sitter after Delana flees.
Natasia: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah. She is originally from Saldaea. As she appeared in New Spring it is unknown whether or not she is still alive.
Negaine: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Nemaira Eldros: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during and/or shortly after the Breaking of the World. She played a part in the decision to build Tar Valon and the White Tower.
Nesita: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. It is unknown whether or not she escapes execution after the Black Ajah is revealed.
Nesune Bihara: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Kandor. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor, but is instead captured herself at Dumai's Wells. She has sworn a vow of fealty to Rand.
Niande Moorwyn: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is neither aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai nor with Elaida's Aes Sedai, but instead seems to be a follower of Cadsuane. She was the Aes Sedai advisor of King Galldrian of Cairhien.
Nianh: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah; it is unknown whether she has aligned herself with the rebel Aes Sedai or Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was Queen Ethenielle of Kandor's Aes Sedai advisor, but she left when she heard of the split in the White Tower.
Niere: A member of the Yellow Ajah who was one of the few who accepted Nynaeve when she returned to the White Tower.
Nimri: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah who weaves a gateway for Gawyn to leave Tar Valon.
Nirelle Coidevwin: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Green Ajah.
Nisain a'Cowel: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent to Shadar Logoth after Rand and Nynaeve cleansed saidin to try to find out what happened there.
Nisao Dachen: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is bonded to Sarin Hoigan. She has sworn an oath of fealty to Egwene al'Vere.
Noane Masadim: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Blue Ajah.
Norine Dovarna: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Notasha: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Notori: An Aes Sedai of the Black Ajah; involved in Mesaana's attack on the White Tower in Tel'aran'rhioda.
Nyein Kalede: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Atha'an Miere.
Nynaeve al'Meara: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Emond's Field in the Two Rivers, Andor. She is married and bonded to Lan Mandragoran. she was one of the two Aes Sedai chosen by Rand to go with him to the Pit of Doom and face the Dark One.
Oselle: A historical Aes Sedai who aided in creating the Eye of the World.
Parenia Demalle: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Gray Ajah.
Patrinda: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Pevara Tazanovni: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Kandor. She is a part of the hunt for the Black Ajah, along with Doesine, Saerin, Seaine and Yukiri. She goes to the Black Tower, where she bonds Androl and is in turn bonded by him.
Phaedrine: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai.
Piava: An Aes Sedai of an unknown Ajah. Her Warder and Sleete form a two man team to guard against the Trollocs.
Pritalle Nerbaijan: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Saldaea and is bonded to Harril. She is involved in the capture of Egwene.
Pylar: A member of the Brown Ajah skilled with weaves of earth
Rabayn Marushta: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the White Ajah.
Raechin Connoral: An Aes Sedai of the Red ajah chosen as Sitter in the absence of Pevara And Javindhra.
Rafela Cindal: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah, and therefore aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Tear and is bonded to Mahiro Shukosa. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by the rebels as an emissary to Rand al'Thor. After the battle at Dumai's Wells, she is forced to swear fealty to him.
Ramesa: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she ws aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Ramola: An Aes Sedai of the Black Ajah who was involved in the attack on the White Tower in Tel'aran'rhiod.
Rashima Kerenmosa: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Green Ajah.
Reiko Kerevon: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah, and therefore aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Arafel. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent to Shadar Logoth after Rand and Nynaeve cleanse saidin to try to find out what happened there.
Rianna Andomeran: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah, and also a member of the Black Ajah. She is originally from Kandor. She flees the White Tower with Liandrin and eleven other members of the Black Ajah. She survives the Last Battle and is trapped in a stedding.
Rina Hafden: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Green Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai and stepped down after reunification. She is bonded to Elyas Machera and Waylin.
Romanda Cassin: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Yellow Ajah; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai for whom she was the First Weaver of the Yellow Ajah. She retains her seat after reunificaition. She is originally from Far Madding. she is killed by Sharans in the Last Battle
Ronaille Vevanios: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor, but is instead captured herself at Dumai's Wells. She is also stilled by Rand in the battle, but is later Healed by Damer Flinn and swears fealty to Rand.
Rosara Medrano: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah. She is originally from Tear. She is present in Tear with Samitsu, Sashalle and others, so it is possible that she is either aligned with Cadsuane or was one of the Aes Sedai sent to capture Rand.
Rosil: A member of the Yellow Ajah chosen as Mistress of Novices after the reunification.
Rubinde: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Green Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Mayene.
Ryma Galfrey: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah. She was captured by the Seanchan and has since become an obedient damane. The sul'dam call her Pura.
Saerin Asnobar: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Altara. She wa a part of the hunt for the Black Ajah, along with Doesine, Pevara, Seaine and Yukiri. After reunification, she was a strong supporter of Egwene.
Saine Tarasind: An Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends. She later became the Forsaken known as Mesaana.
Salindi Casolan: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during and/or shortly after the Breaking of the World. She played a part in the decision to build Tar Valon and the White Tower.
Salita Toranes: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Yellow Ajah; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai and stepped down after reunificaiton. She is originally from Tear.
Samalin Naerodan: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Green Ajah; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai and steps down after reunificaiton. She is originally from Murandy.
Samitsu Tamagowa: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she is neither aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai nor Elaida's Aes Sedai, but is instead a follower of Cadsuane. She is originally from Arafel and is bonded to Roshan.
Saraline Amerano: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during and/or shortly after the Breaking of the World. She played a part in the decision to build Tar Valon and the White Tower.
Sareitha Tomares: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Tear and is bonded to Ned Yarman. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by the rebels as an emissary to Queen Tylin of Altara. She is later murdered by the Black Ajah in Knife of Dreams
Sarene Nemdahl: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Tarabon and is bonded to Vitalien. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor, but is instead captured herself in the battle at Dumai's Wells. She has sworn an oath of fealty to Rand. During the the Last Battle, she was taken under Compulsion by Hessalam
Saroiya Farseen: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the White Ajah; she joined the rebel Aes Sedai under instruction from her Ajah head and retained her seat after reunfication. She is originally from Arad Doman.
Sashalle Anderly: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor, but is instead captured herself at Dumai's Wells. She is also stilled by Rand in the battle, but is later Healed by Damer Flinn and swears fealty to Rand.
Seaine Herimon: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the White Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Lugard, Murandy. She is a part of the hunt for the Black Ajah, along with Doesine, Pevara, Saerin and Yukiri.
Sedore Dajenna: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Yellow Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai and fled after reunification, presumably as a member of the Black Ajah.
Selame Necoine: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Green Ajah.
Seonid Traighan: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Cairhien and is bonded to Furen Alharra and Teryl Wynter. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by the rebels as an emissary to Rand, but is instead captured herself at Dumai's Wells and swears an oath of fealty to him. She accompanies Perrin when he goes to Ghealdan.
Serafelle Tanisloe: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; it is unknown whether she has aligned herself with the rebel Aes Sedai or Elaida's Aes Sedai, or even if she survived the split in the Tower.
Serancha Colvine: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is also the Head Clerk of the Gray Ajah.
Sereille Bagand: An Amyrlin Seat raise from the White Ajah. She was the Mistress of Novices at one point, possibly for her predecessor, Parenia Demalle.
Serenia Latar: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Gray Ajah.
Sevlana Meseau: A historical, famous Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah.
Shana Goridien: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent to Shadar Logoth after Rand and Nynaeve cleansed saidin to try to find out what happened there.
Shanelle: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she was aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai.
Shein Chunla: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Green Ajah.
Shemaen: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah. She is mentioned in New Spring but not in any of the later books.
Shemari: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai.
Shemerin: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. Elaida demotes her to Accepted and she runs away from the Tower, taking on a position as a washerwoman in the rebel camp.
Sheraine Caminelle: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah. She was captured by the Seanchan and has since become an obedient damane. The sul'dam call her Mylen.
Sheriam Bayanar: An Aes Sedai of the Blue Ajah, and therefore aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She is originally from Saldaea and is bonded to Arinvar. She was the Mistress of Novices for Siuan Sanche, and is Egwene al'Vere's Keeper of the Chronicles. She was a part of the original council of Aes Sedai in Salidar. She has sworn an oath of fealty to Egwene. She is executed when it is discovered that she is Black.
Shevan Gadarin: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is killed when the Black Ajah attack the Tower in Tel'aran'rhiod
Sierin Vayu: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Gray Ajah.
Silviana Brehon: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was Elaida's Mistress of Novices until she stood up for Egwene against Elaida and was imprisoned and replaced by Katerine. After reunification, Egwene chose her as Keeper of the Chronicles.
Siuan Sanche: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Blue Ajah. She is originally from Tear and was bonded to Alric until his death. She was stilled and deposed; this event caused the breaking of the White Tower. She was Healed by Nynaeve al'Meara and later bonded Gareth Bryne. she is killed defending Mat Cauthon in the Last Battle.
Solinda: A historical Aes Sedai who aided in creating the Eye of the World. She sent the Da'Shain Aiel away with angreal, sa'angreal and ter'angreal, in an attempt to save both the Aiel and the items.
Suana Dragand: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Yellow Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is the First Weaver of the Yellow Ajah in the Tower and steps down after reunification, to allow Romanda and Magla to take seats.
Suilin Escanda: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Blue Ajah.
Sulmara: A historical Aes Sedai, who was also the Queen of Masenashar. She was a renegade.
Takima Deraighdin: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Brown Ajah; she is joined the rebel Aes Sedai under instruction from her Head of Ajah and retains her seat after reunification.
Talene Minly: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Green Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah, a fact that is found out by Doesine, Pevara, Saerin, Seaine and Yukiri. She was forced to swear an oath to obey them.
Talva: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah. Also was member of the Black Ajah and died in Mesaana's attack on the White Tower.
Tamra Ospenya: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Blue Ajah. She was murdered by the Black Ajah.
Tarna Feir: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is originally from Altara. She is Elaida's second Keeper of the Chornicles, after Alviarin is removed from the position. She is one of the Red Aes Sedai sent to the Black Ajah to bond an Asha'man Warder, where she undergoes a sudden personality change following being turned to the Shadow by Taim.
Tel Janin Aellinsar: A male Aes Sedai during the Age of Legends. He later became the Forsaken known as Sammael.
Temaile Kinderode: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah, as well as a member of the Black Ajah. She flees the White Tower with Liandrin and eleven other members of the Black Ajah and was captured by Elayne, before being killed trying to escape.
Teramina: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She disappears from the White Tower after Egwene is raised Amyrling
Tesan: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; shewas aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Tesien Jorhald: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Teslyn Baradon: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was a Sitter until Elaida unchaired her and sent her as an emissary to Queen Tylin of Altara. She was captured by the Seanchan when they invaded Ebou Dar and was made damane, but she was later rescued by Matrim Cauthon, whome she accompanies to Caemlyn, before leaving to return to the White Tower..
Tetsuan: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Red Ajah. She lived during the Trolloc Wars. She was stilled and deposed for betraying Manetheren.
Theodrin Dabei: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is originally from Arad Doman. Because she has not yet taken the oaths and was instead raised to the shawl by Egwene al'Vere, many of the Aes Sedai do not consider her a full sister. She was sent to the Black Tower to find Asha'man to bond, but was not allowed to enter
Therva Maresis: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent to Shadar Logoth after Rand and Nynaeve cleansed saidin to try to find out what happened there.
Tiana Noselle: An Aes Sedai of the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She was Mistress of Novices for the Rebels, but was replaced after reunification.
Toveine Gazal: An Aes Sedai of and former Sitter for the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was exiled about fifteen years ago, along with Lirene Doirellin and Tsutama Rath, but was later called back from exile by Elaida after she became the Amyrlin Seat. She was the leader of the force sent to the Black Tower by Elaida, where she was bonded by Logain Ablar. She was turned to the Shadow by Taim
Tsutama Rath: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was a Sitter until she was exiled about fifteen years ago, along with Lirene Doirellin and Toveine Gazal, but was later called back from exile by Elaida after she became the Amyrlin Seat. Tsutama is now the Head of the Red Ajah.
Turanine Merdagon: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah. She was originally from Saldaea. She died when Beonin was still an Accepted. Beonin sees her ghost walking the grounds of the White Tower.
Turanna Norill: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor, but is instead captured herself at Dumai's Wells. She later swears fealty to Rand.
Turese: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai.
Valera Gorovni: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah. She was killed by the Black Ajah because she was set by Tamra Ospenya to search for the Dragon Reborn.
Valinde Nathenos: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She was a part of the Salidar embassy to Rand, but ended up escorting the Two Rivers girls found by Alanna and Verin to the rebels. She is originally from Illian.
Vandene Namelle: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. Her sister is Adeleas and she is bonded to Jaem. She is killed in Knife of Dreams after she kills Careane Fransi for murdering her sister.
Varilin Zanaire: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Gray Ajah; she joined the rebel Aes Sedai under instuction from her Head of Ajah and retains her seat after reunification..
Varuna Morrigan: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Green Ajah.
Vasha: An Aes Sedai of the Green Ajah; she was aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor; she escapes Dumai's Wells and returns to Dorlan. She is from Arad Doman. She is bonded to Marlesh.
Vayelle Kamsa: An Aes Sedai of the Red Ajah, and therefore aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Aes Sedai sent by Elaida to capture Rand al'Thor; she was instead captured herself and eventually swore fealty to him.
Velina Behar: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the White Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is also a member fo the Black Ajah. She is originally from Saldaea. She manages to escape the Tower before being executed as a Black.
Verin Mathwin: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She is bonded to Tomas. She has sworn fealty to Rand. She was also an Aes Sedai of the Black Ajah and commited suicide so that she could betray their secrets.
Viria Connoral: A member of the Red Ajah chosen as a Sitter in the absence of Javindhra and Pevara
Yasicca Cellaech: An ancient Brown scholar
Yuan: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah. She was present in New Spring but has not been mentioned in any of the other books.
Yukiri Haruna: An Aes Sedai of and Sitter for the Gray Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She was a part of the hunt for the Black Ajah, along with Doesine, Pevara, Saerin and Seaine and became one of Egwene's strongest supporters after reunification. During the Last Battle, she weaves gateways of various types.
Zanica: An Aes Sedai of undetermined Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is also a member of the Black Ajah. She is involved in capturing Leane Sharif. It is unknown whether or not she escapes execution after the Black Ajah is revealed.
Zemaille Amassa: An Aes Sedai of the Brown Ajah; she is aligned with Elaida's Aes Sedai. She is one of the Atha'an Miere.
Zenare Ghodar: An Aes Sedai of the Yellow Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai.
Zerah Dacan: An Aes Sedai of the White Ajah; she is aligned with the rebel Aes Sedai. She was sent back to the White Tower to spread rumors about Logain and the Red Ajah. She was under an oath to obey Doesine, Pevara, Saerin, Seaine and Yukiri but released after Egwene persuaded them they were wrong to do so.
Zeranda Tyrim: An Amyrlin Seat raised from the Brown Ajah.
Zorelle: A historical Aes Sedai who lived during the Age of Legends.